# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

In console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

Lines 18 to 29 in property.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

4, 13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

Because an id is made automatically when the object is added to the database, as long as you have told the database to give a unique id to each object

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In properties.sql we have defined the database with a PRIMARY KEY to give each entry a unique id number

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

So that it does not try change nil to an integer. the id is only changed to an integer if it exists

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

instance methods: save, update, delete

class_methods: all, find, find_by_address, delete_all

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It returns a hash of the property values. Id is returned by calling the id in square brackets like you would with any hash

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

to stop sql injection attacks. The prepared statements stop any harmful inputs being read as SQL code

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

The relative id and address you wish to find from the database

Q11. What are their return values?
